# Module-18-Challenge

Link to Tableau Workbook:[ [https://public.tableau.com/views/Module18_16962046127260/CitibikeProgramAnalysis?:language=en-US&publish=yes&:display_count=n&:origin=viz_share_link](https://public.tableau.com/shared/PD9DKMKNZ?:display_count=n&:origin=viz_share_link)]

Analysis:
I decided to download and analyze data from one month in 2019 and the same month in 2020 to compare ridership data before and during the pandemic. Since both sets of data contained the same attributes to make, it made it easier to work with in Tableau.  I first looked at the average trip duration, but realized that the range of values was very large, so I decided to look at the distribution of trip durations for both 2019 and 2020. I then filtered future visualizations to only include trip duration values below 43,200 seconds, or 12 hours (in jupyter notebook). Looking at calculated rider age, I noticed quite a few outliers, and determined this could be due to certain riders not being honest about their age. So this led to breaking down by user type, and it appears from the visualization that customers(non-subscribers) could more often being dishonest with birth year. This could be due to the rider simply preferring not to answer or being in a hurry to get somewhere. A more normal looking distribution is observed with the subscribers, still with a few outliers, but can still give us valuable information about the average rider (around 25-35 years old). Next, I looked at the number of rides and average trip duration broken down by user type. It was interesting to see that customers make up significantly fewer rides, but have longer average trips, and subscribers account for more total rides, but on average, take shorter trips. Though the values are different, the same was observed over May 2019 and May 2020. I next plotted the number of rides and average trip duration broken down per day of the week. Here, there were differences between the two years. In 2019, it seemed Wednesday through Friday was popular, with average trips lasting around 15 minutes each day. In 2020, it seemed weekends were most popular, with average trips slightly longer, around 25 minutes each day (with weekends slighly higher than weekdays). This is where you can see an impact to rider habits from the pandemic. Finally, to further observe rider habits, I created a chart and a map to show the most popular start stations, with the darker colored markers indicating the most popular stations. Geographically, the more popular stations seem to be near a park or near a major travel route, such as Grand Central Station.

The datasets I chose to work with show bike usage comparison between 2019 and 2020. However, scaling these visualizations up for each month or year and viewing month to month changes and could lead to other valuable observation for city officials to further improve the program and keep up with changing usage patterns. Working with multiple months or years of data would require a significant amount of data cleaning or working with subsets of the data, however, as Tableau cannot handle the amount of data collected by the citi bike program. 

